Blog: Windows HostProcess containers going to stable (#37370)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-12-13-host-process-containers-ga/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.26: Windows HostProcess Containers Are Going Generally Available"
date: 2022-12-13
slug: windows-host-process-containers-ga
---

**Authors**: Brandon Smith (Microsoft) and Mark Rossetti (Microsoft)

The long-awaited day has arrived: HostProcess containers, the Windows equivalent to Linux privileged
containers, has finally made it to **GA in Kubernetes 1.26**!

What are HostProcess containers and why are they useful?

> Cluster operators are often faced with the need to configure their nodes upon provisioning. Whether it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster operators are often faced with the need to configure their nodes upon provisioning such as
```

installing Windows services, configuring registry keys, managing TLS certificates,

> making network configuration changes, or even deploying monitoring tools such as a Prometheus's node-exporter.

Reviewer 2: Prometheus's windows_exporter
Also may want to add a link: https://github.com/prometheus-community/windows_exporter/blob/master/kubernetes/kubernetes.md
node exporter is for linux

Reviewer: good catch. Could you open PR for these fixes? They would got live as soon as we merge it, if I understand correctly

- [Windows-debug container](https://github.com/jsturtevant/windows-debug)
- [ETW event streaming](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/sig-windows-tools/tree/master/hostprocess/eventflow-logger)

## How do I use it?

A HostProcess container can be built using any base image of your choosing, however, for convenience we have
created [a HostProcess container base image](https://github.com/microsoft/windows-host-process-containers-base-image).
This image is only a few KB in size and does not inherit any of the same compatibility requirements as regular Windows
server containers which allows it to run on any Windows server version.

To use that Microsoft image, put this in your `Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM mcr.microsoft.com/oss/kubernetes/windows-host-process-containers-base-image:v1.0.0
```

You can run HostProcess containers from within a
[HostProcess Pod](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/#privileged-mode-for-containers).

To get started with running Windows containers,
see the general guidance for [deploying Windows nodes](/docs/setup/production-environment/windows/).
If you have a compatible node (for example: Windows as the operating system

> containerd v1.7 or later), you can deploy a Pod with one

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
f you have a compatible node (for example: Windows as the operating system
with containerd v1.7 or later as the container runtime), you can deploy a Pod with one

Reviewer 4: @aravindhp I think there is a typo in your suggestion

Reviewer 3: Sorry about that @sftim 

```suggestion
If you have a compatible node (for example: Windows as the operating system
with containerd v1.7 or later as the container runtime), you can deploy a Pod with one
